Snenario 1 : We have a marketplace where vendors can view their orders. How would you design authorization so that:
a) Vendor A cannot access Vendor B data
b) Admins have scoped privileges
c) System scales to millions of orders
d) Performance is not impacted

Ans: 
1️⃣ First Clarify the Model
I’ll assume we have three actors — Vendor, Admin, and System services. APIs are microservice-based. I’ll design this with strong object-level authorization because in marketplaces, BOLA is the most common critical vulnerability.

2️⃣ Authentication Layer
Authentication would be handled via OAuth2 with short-lived JWTs.
Each JWT would contain:
	• subject (vendor_id or admin_id)
	• role
	• scoped permissions
	• tenant identifier”
Add:
“JWT signature must be validated and audience/issuer verified at API gateway level.”

3️⃣ Authorization Model (Core of Answer)
I would avoid pure RBAC because it’s insufficient for multi-tenant marketplaces. Instead I would use a hybrid RBAC + ABAC model.
	• RBAC for high-level role (Vendor, Admin)
	• ABAC for object-level checks (vendor_id must match order.vendor_id)

“For order APIs, authorization must be enforced at query level, not after retrieval.”
Example:
Instead of:
SELECT * FROM orders WHERE order_id = ?
Use:
SELECT * FROM orders 
WHERE order_id = ? 
AND vendor_id = authenticated_vendor_id

“This eliminates the risk of IDOR/BOLA even if developer forgets explicit checks.”

4️⃣ Admin Scoped Privileges
“They should never have unrestricted access by default.”
Then:
	• Define fine-grained scopes:
		○ read:orders
		○ refund:orders
		○ view:financials
Then:
“Use policy engine (like OPA-style evaluation) for dynamic policies such as:
	• Admin can only access vendors in their region
	• Finance team cannot modify orders”

5️⃣ Performance at Scale
“To ensure performance with millions of orders:”
	• Index on (vendor_id, order_id)
	• Partition by vendor_id if needed
	• Avoid centralized authorization DB lookups
	• Prefer stateless token validation
	• Cache policy decisions where safe
	• Push authz close to data layer
Then say:
“Authorization must be O(1) per request — no external calls per request.”

6️⃣ Service-to-Service Security
“Internal microservices should not trust forwarded headers.
Use mTLS with service identity and propagate validated auth context securely.”

7️⃣ Logging & Detection
“Log denied access attempts.
Alert on sequential order ID access attempts — possible enumeration attack.”

8️⃣ Key Principles:
Default deny
Enforce authz at data layer
Hybrid RBAC + ABAC
Stateless validation
Policy-driven scaling

❓ 1. “What if vendor has sub-users?”
“I would introduce hierarchical authorization.
Sub-users would have scoped permissions tied to vendor_id.
Policies would evaluate both vendor context and user scope.”

❓ 2. “What if order service calls payment service?”
“User-level authorization is enforced at API boundary.
Downstream services should validate service identity but not re-evaluate user auth unless accessing sensitive user data.”

❓ 3. “How do you test for BOLA?”
Role-based automated tests
Fuzzing object IDs
Negative integration tests
DAST API scanning
Bug bounty signals

❓ 4. “Can JWT be trusted fully?”
“No. Signature must be validated. Claims must not be blindly trusted.
Never accept unsigned tokens.
Verify exp, nbf, aud, iss.”

Attacks:
alg=none attack
Key confusion attack
